## Survivors
### Hour 08
The wreckage of *Nereid* was strewn across the frozen wasteland, still burning in the night after almost nine hours. She had come through the atmosphere that morning uncontrolled and unpowered, a shrieking deity tracing her death across the sky. Pieces of her had strewn across across the horizon in wells of orange and red flame, funnels of thick smoke lit by their own fires black against the black sky.  Throwing off almost no radiation though. No radiation anywhere. The core and heavy matter had probably gone down in the drink. Probably the bulk of the ship itself.
The wind blasted so hard that he staggered. He shifted the man he carried—or woman, it was hard to tell. A ragged form of awkward weights that tipped him eagerly this way and that. He had to stop and rest, catch his breath. A ponce move, but it was either that or let his charge drop. He laid the form down gently as though unfurling it from himself, then knelt beside it. Took a swig from his canteen. Snow shone in his headgear like the stars themselves. A flurry of mist and the ground ghostly white in the beacon. He picked up his charge again and set off.
He looked to the rest of the search party. They had climbed a hill and were pulling away,  losing opacity. He watched the last one crest the top and disappear over the other side. He traced their steps, certain he’d followed true, but when he looked beyond the peak he saw nothing; just an expanse. His thoughts muted. The breath of the world passed in a torrent. He wondered whether they had been real to begin with or if they were an illusion born purely from his need to not be alone. Calmly he switched off his beacon and scanned the landscape and despite the abundance of white static riding the wind he saw a movement of light near the bottom. He allowed himself to continue.
About twenty in their search party, and twelve more from the downed scout in the northern ridge.  Four of the injured in makeshift stretchers of cargo netting, the rest alternately in fireman’s carries or walking if they were up to it. All of them swaddled in blankets and thermal gear which left them swollen and homogenous. Distance was meaningless here, except the distance between each other.