### Hour 04
The wind had stopped and visibility was clear. She sighted the other party first, still dots in the wilderness five hundred meters off. Only the latest in the collection of miracles that was her. They hid in cover of snow and bore witness together. Their vantage point was poor. “Wait here,” he said, and she nodded weakly, without energy.
The ground was covered in gentle moguls which he used to mask his approach. When he got into position he laid on his stomach and propped himself on his elbows and scoped the unknowns. Snow had found its way into his blankets and a groundshaking chill ran through him. He could barely stabilize the image.
The newcomers numbered nineteen in total. Husky and large in nonregulation furs and thickly studded surveyor’s pouches. Workers or tradesmen. A few carried scavenged watchmen’s pikes taller than a man with incandescent soul lights still burning at their tips. Four of them smaller, younger, wearing familiar jumpsuits decked out with thermals. One of them maybe female. They sledded metal equipment boxes on a tarp between them. Fellow engineers, perhaps. All of them headed along the bearing of the homing beacon. Likely from *Nereid* given their gear.
Training his scopes in their direction of travel he found a black structure in the middle of the field nearly a hundred meters long shaped like a maggot with a cornucopia maw at one end. At the maw it was several stories tall. A dorsal cargo hold or landing bay from the looks of the flat bottom. It appeared to have separated and touched down during troposphere entry, carving an icy ravine behind it. The rest of the ship was nowhere in sight.
When he went back and told her she smiled as though once again filled with spirit. Then she stood and let out a long chattering breath. For an instant he beheld her silhouette against the dead sky and thought of home. She told him he was her good luck charm and led him tightly by the hand. 
---- 
They walked along a wake where flash-melted waves had re-frozen into skyward fingers almost as tall as the hold itself. The waves cast gnarled blue shadows in the shape of some ancient forest. Within the maw, a ruin of girders and jagged metal. Fountains of sparks like fireworks. Along their path a trail of cargo containers, shipping crates, netting, and machinery upended in the ice as though floating in a frozen sea. Footprints leading the way ahead.
---- 
Two bearded crewmen looked down at them over the lip of the deck, from among the pipes and conduits that jutted from an uneven coastline of mesh. They dropped ropes and she climbed first. Her blankets unraveled and flew about like a violent flame engulfing her body. At the top they dragged her up and over by the waist. Perhaps history’s least ceremonial ascendance into salvation. He went next, facing a nest of bulging mechanical guts as he climbed, legs crossed, fist over fist. His arms were weak; feeling all but left his digits. If she could make it so could he. After he fell panting onto the deck she came to him and they knelt together. Twenty-strong survivors stood around them in a grove. Men and women, workers and engineers. Their faces hard as though engraved in stone. Even though they had only been marooned a brief time they looked like hell.
One of the bearded men knelt with them, saying brother, sister, welcome. You found us. 
---- 
They were given steaming tin cups with ration cubes dissolved in water. He held his in both hands like a sacrament and sipped. A salty illusion of food. They piled on the blankets until their shivering was under control but he still could not feel his feet.
Three junior engineers sat with them. Their detail worked reclamation on the flight deck. Two men, one lanky, one fat, and one woman with short acid-white hair. Second year, second year, third year, they introduced themselves. And you? We’re both third, she answered.
The lanky second-year asked if they knew any more about what had happened. They did not. She told their story, bobbing her head, her hair pulled into a comet-tail. As she spoke the collection around them nodded and looked to each other expressionlessly as though in a trance.
*Everything went dark like a breaker tripped. There were only handheld lights and chemical overheads. Corridors spun and spun in microgravity. The air was thick like soup. The pumps. You couldn’t hear the atmosphere pumps. It was so quiet I thought I’d go crazy. We climbed for what felt like miles and miles. Found a working hopper and shoved off together.*
How’d you launch without the control systems?
*Sidewinders*, she answered. *Through the bay doors.*
He stared at her.
*It took us five or six volleys.* She nudged him. *He needs a few tries to shoot straight.* And she let it sit for a moment, taking in their astonished faces and then letting them in on it. The lanky one shook his head grinning with his arms on his haunches and said oh shit and the rest of them relayed their own similar accounts of the day. Everything electric going out at once. Interior structures turning to dead monoliths, studded with points of emergency lights like campfires. Anyone caught in an open-air section carried away as though by some divine hand. The pods didn’t work. Only those who found their way to some kind of auxiliary craft survived. Nobody knew the cause of *Nereid*’s downfall or whether the cause led to any imminent danger. There was only the trickle of information from the radio and from incoming survivors
---- 
They worked alongside the other juniors, hauling inventory for a bit, then trying to get the atmosphere pumps working within the hold. Soon they learned that two engineers had found the hold early in Nor’s daycycle and hotwired a personal transmitter to its spire for continuous broadcast. Being the seniormost noncommissioned officers they also took duty and directed salvage operations.
Survival gear was plentiful, as were emergency blankets. *Nereid* had been well-equipped to fight the cold. Donning this gear the engineers hauled out the worst of the wreckage. There were prefabricated settlements intended for planetside use intact in the rear. They considered setting a unit up but quickly determined that the structure would not have been sound in the ice or snow or the metal of the deck. But the parts were useful as scaffolding to erect dividers and screens, and a primitive set of windblocking corridors along the maw. 
The gel in the hold’s power relays provided an emergency means of combustion and they set about arranging barrels of blue flame and metal crates to stave off the elements. It was sinful to burn it in this manner, he thought. So many megajoules wasted.
---- 
During a smoke break he found her by the maw gazing out at the stark greying world. He’d seen that look before, back in the Mother-city and the Scrapyards and finally the launchpad at Oth.  A mixture of hope and contemplation of suicide.
“They would have been happy for us,” he said.
She accepted the burning cigarette but it went out by the time she brought it to her lips. She shook her head. 
“Such is fate,” she replied.
“I like to think it didn’t turn out so bad.”
“No, it didn’t.”
She sheltered the cigarette with one hand and brought it back to life. He leaned on a precarious railing.
“In fact,” she said, “it turned out as good as I could have hoped.”
“”
“We’ll never escape. All we can do is bide our time and live well.”
She tossed the cigarette into the void outside and retreated into the hold.