## Emily
### Hour 08
Emily swept across the dark cargo bay, through a row of shipmates with broken limbs and missing skin. They lay on makeshift beds within the cargo hold wrapped in sheets and gauze that ran shiny with ichor. Survivors of the crash, then the journey through a frozen wasteland. Some sat, some covered their knees and quivered. Able-bodied survivors and medics made their way around the injured tracing avenues through their ranks, sometimes carrying water, medicine, clothing. There was no food. 
The darkness around them was thick and oily. Palm beacons and chemical lanterns emitted only enough light to delineate the mounds of men and women under covers on either side of her narrow path. A miniature town of shipping containers had been arranged into rough hovels in the expanse of the hold. Some areas had been cordoned off with sheets, behind which orange lights pulsed feebly. Far under the mesh of the deck was an abyss where trickled some unspeakable runoff that effused a stench of vomit and rotting meat. Overhead the catwalks and bulkheads disappeared into a starless black and the flicker of illumination from below gave the impression that the misshapen structures could twist and fall at any moment. The open landing maw once shone with stars, but now it buzzed chaotically with snowflakes. Wind from the storm spooled and tunneled inside, its scent fresh and cold.
At the entrance to the hold where the maw extended far above her field of vision she could gaze out to the world beyond, where the snowflakes became stars and the burning wreckage far in the landscape spewed funnels of smoke geyser-like and colored the night warm as hearths. There she wouldn’t be able to hear the bonesaws or the screaming of men. Only hushed silence, murmurs.
Dimly the blackboard at the hold’s maw grew visible. She pushed aside a strand of mousey hair unwashed and unkempt for the past three days. Since the crash the board had been repurposed as a memory wall whereupon service numbers of the living and the dead were recorded. It had become an alphanumeric soup written in a hundred hands, splotched with moisture in places and carefully rewritten.
A grey crowd huddled by lanternflame around the board, straining to read. She remembered their mannerisms the last time she copied out a group of tags. The click of the chalk set to an occasional gasp. A hand shooting up to cover a mouth. A hasty retreat from the board into the crowd. Good news or ill? She neither envied nor pitied them. She only knew one service number other than her own. 
Her boots rattled the deck like a snare over the general din. The day’s triage had left her unable to meet the gazes that came from around her. Even now the wounded reached out, called her *doctor*, called her *angel*. Called her many names she didn’t deserve. They asked for bandages or salves; these she could give. But some asked for a turn in the pure chamber to knit new skin over their burns. There was no pure chamber on Nor. There were no splicers, no recombinators. No microsurgery equipment in their field kits. There was only the act of opening people up and mechanically sewing them back together. 
Earlier that day she had repaired an artery with second-year Mica, who pulled off her bloodied mask after the procedure and declared that not even the chefs in the fucking galley treated their meat like that. Impotence was not the most difficult part of triage. An old surgeon named Fisk, who had survived splashdown that morning and directed the four trainee medics, had warned that those predisposed in sympathy would find the hard part not in tending to the injured but in deliberate inaction in the face of those who could not be saved. Turning her back had been harder than she thought. Reducing life to an approximation of an equation. A guess. An instinct. Em kept her head down and endured, but at times the shock of losing *Nereid* would give way to despair and she found a singularity weighing her down from the pit of her bowels. When this happened she knocked back a few reds that she and Mica had squirreled from the internists’ lockers and found relief in short order. But she found as side effect that couldn’t look anyone in the eye.
So she kept her pace steady and stole glances at those around her. Down the row an older man with a wild beard lay on a makeshift bed covered waist-down, his right leg ending at the knee. A geologist or miner from his uniform. Two younger men with thin faces and cavernous eyes knelt at his side, caps in their hands. A master and his apprentices, perhaps.
In a corner of shipping containers, a young woman held a cloth bag to her head, her hair a tattered nest. Beside her a man leaned over her, one hand by her face, the other on her arm. He seemed to speak and she nodded. Her left eye was taped shut with a wad of cotton dressing, and her cheek was dark and swollen. 
Behind them two dragoons moved with slow deliberation as though patrolling the makeshift infirmary, their curved helmets leering in profile like the heads of birds of prey. They had been on watch all day bringing in survivors.
She turned and came to stare at the old man by accident, and he stared back, the whites of his eyes visible around his pupils. His hair and beard were black and curled, and his face was also black, whether from the day’s hardship or part of his normal hygiene she couldn’t tell. He was not hurt, not bandaged, unrestricted in movement. He wore the uniform of a mission specialist but he had the bovine expression of a manual laborer or simple builder. Although old, he was stocky and his bulbous head ballooned from his broad chest. His right forearm was an industrial implant, a thick metal column with cylindrical pistons that clacked as he moved, and instead of a hand his wrist ended in a jagged multitool that still held a wisp of blue cutter’s flame.
“Shepherdess,” he said, almost in a sneer, and left. He probably didn’t know any better, she thought, willing her patience from her wellspring of reds. She walked on eagerly but he called out suddenly in pain, then cursed loudly. A small but substantial metal object hit the deck. She turned. The old man held his right tricep with his fleshed left hand, doubling over in agony. 
“What happened?” she asked, but as she approached he turned his bulk to hide his right arm, then swatted at her with his left.
“Away!” he yelled, then stood and left without turning around. “No piss-green cadet going to take to Old Wells.”
The scent of seared flesh hung in the air. She exhaled and closed her eyes, rubbed her face in her palms. Her hair had come loose and she tied it behind her in a tiny sprout at the base of her neck, then clipped her bangs back into place. After several breaths she looked about, sniffing at the odor to find its source. A few containers had been pushed together into a rough hovel and on them were several unconscious forms. She wandered closer. The smell had changed. It was still the smell of heat but inorganic, like superheated metal in the machine shops.
 She picked up a lantern from a den of blankets and dialed its burner as high as it would go. The flame increased marginally in brightness. Following the smell she stepped around scraped containers and metal wreckage. Shadows lapped and retreated around her. An instinctual fear arose from the strangeness of the situation but she ignored it as had become her custom that day.