## The Hold
### Hour 01
The wind blasted so hard that they staggered. Distance was meaningless here, except the distance between her and himself. Every now and again one of them would fall in the knee-deep snow and be helped by the other. 
As they climbed a hill she started to pull away and lose opacity. She crested the top and was gone over the other side. He traced her steps, certain he’d followed true, but when he reached the peak he saw nothing; just an expanse. His thoughts muted. The breath of the world passed in a torrent. He wondered whether she had been real to begin with or if she was an illusion born purely from his need to not be alone. Calmly he scanned the landscape and the abundance of white static riding the wind and he saw her near the bottom. He allowed himself to continue.
---- 
They sighted the first party nearly half an hour later, dots in the wilderness five hundred meters off. The wind had stopped and visibility was clear. He tackled her into a cover of snow where they bore witness together but their vantage point was poor. “Wait here,” he said, and to his surprise she did. The ground was covered in gentle moguls which he used to mask his approach. When he got into position he laid on his stomach and propped himself on his elbows and scoped the unknowns. Snow had found its way into his blankets and a groundshaking chill ran through him. He could barely stabilize the image.
To his relief he recognized *Nereid* gear on the newcomers. They numbered nineteen in total, mostly builders and tradesmen. Husky and large in nonregulation furs and thickly studded surveyor’s pouches. A few carried watchmen’s pikes taller than a man with incandescent soul lights still burning at their tips. Four of them smaller, younger, wearing familiar jumpsuits decked out with thermals. They sledded metal equipment boxes on a tarp between them. Fellow engineers, perhaps. All of them headed along the bearing of the homing beacon. They had a sizable lead and he had no way to contact them.
When he went back and told her she smiled. Then she stood and let out a long chattering breath. For an instant he beheld her silhouette against the dead sky and thought of home. “You’re my good luck charm,” she said. She led the way and he followed. Like the first time they made love so long ago.