## Star
I was such a stubborn child. But my mother could make me do anything. She told me stories about our world, about its people and their origins. So strange and vivid were her tales that sometimes I think she was working her will in me all along. She wanted me on the *Nereid* mission. She wanted a daughter on the new world. A pilgrim, a pioneer, a curse-breaker. Bearing a torch among the crazy and wonderful. So she told me what I needed to hear.
Like the rest of the Han she believed that our ancestors came to Monument over a thousand years ago. Riding a current of folded spacetime across eons of black void. Their vessel was a Wandering Star, and nestled within it, a dewdrop of life, a singularity in a mostly-dead universe. In scale, it was infinitesimal among the celestial clockwork, too tiny to fathom among burning stars and seething gasses. Yet a continent spanned its interior. It was a globe, only inside-out, filled with cracked desert lands and peaks of snow and ice. Rivers ran off mountains, feeding patches of meadow and farmland. On a beautiful summer day you could see across the concave landscape clear to the other side of the world beyond the clouds and the sun dead center in the sky.
A race of ancestor-gods built the Star. Creatures who had mastered entropy and solved the mathematics of consciousness. They were parents to the Star, but they were also its children, living within it for the duration of their great voyage. But their power was limited. Hundreds of years into their journey, an immortal named Gemini burned the ancestor-gods in their own cities, leaving a wake of bleached white skulls and charred geometric primitives: lines, angles, parabolic curves. The Star became little more than a ball of scar tissue.
Still, it loved its children. It managed to save some of them deep in its thick skin to wait out the half-lives. Generations lived in the husk of a dead world with no air and no light on its surface. In this manner the Star completed its journey to Monument, where it split itself open like slices of a hollow orange. Rifts opened wide across the land, and through those rifts, on the other side, was a planet, a *real* planet, round and blue and shining with water and veiled with cloud. Lands of green and mountains of grey, so vast that they would fill the sky beyond, fill and fill and fill. And this new world greeted them with a terrible fire. Supersonic, unrelenting. It picked up trees and flung them across the land, or reduced them outright to splinters and ash. Mountains fell like sandcastles.
But the Star protected them from the flame. The Star that once gave her soul to save them from the armies of Gemini would give her body to see them safely to their new home.
When it was all over, passages to the surface opened again and they emerged into the daylight of a new world, a real world, a distant shore. *Our* world. They turned their pale faces to a new sun hanging oblique in a sky of white haze, above a level horizon. The Star became a flower, its petals strewn flat across the land, its journey of sixty centuries over at last.
And those paleriests who pledge their hearts in devotion to the blue sky. Warriors who sail through murky space in great Leviathan daughter-ships that orbit the Star like electrons. And people. Wonderful, ordinary people, the colors and voices of their age. Points on a meaningless space-filling curve. 
The Star still watches them. Though they are lost, it guides them. Though they do not listen, it accepts their worship, wishing that at the end of its journey they will leave the confines of its husk and flourish.