## Space
My mother told me many stories about our world, about our skies and our stars. She told me things that had passed down our bloodlines since the first wave of settlers arrived on our world a thousand years ago. They came in a seedship big as moons, if you believe the tales. From so far away that those who arrived couldn’t even remember where they came from. Who they were. Their entire civilization arose in the blackness of space. They stopped believing that they were once anyone before. Only a race of spacefarers, racing across the heavens in a steady state. They had always been, they thought, and they always would be.

A Wandering Star cuts across black void, riding a current of folded spacetime. Nestled within it: a dewdrop of life, a singularity in a mostly-dead universe. In scale, it is shockingly infinitesimal among the celestial clockwork, too tiny to fathom among burning stars and seething gasses. Yet a continent spans its interior. It is a globe, only inside-out, filled with cracked desert lands and peaks of snow and ice. Rivers runs off mountains, feeding patches of meadow and farms where things still grow. On a beautiful summer day you can smell the fresh dirt and the scent of pine carried on a wind from far away, and even though the whole thing is an imitation it’s really not that bad. You even get used to seeing the concave landscape, the other side of the world beyond the clouds in the sky.
A race of ancestor-gods built the Star. Creatures who had mastered entropy and solved the mathematics of consciousness. They were parents to the Star, but they were also its children, living within it for the duration of their great voyage. But their power was sadly limited. Hundreds of years ago, a lich named Gemini burned the ancestor-gods in their own cities, leaving a wake of bleached white skulls. Of their monuments, only charred geometric primitives remain: lines, angles, parabolic curves. The Star became little more than a ball of scar tissue.
Still, it loved its children, even managed to save some of them deep underground to wait out the half-lives and the poisoned air. Generations ago the children of the Star re-emerged, and now they fill the ruined land. Priests who pledge their hearts in devotion to the blue sky. Warriors who sail through murky space in great Leviathan daughter-ships that orbit the Star like electrons. And people. Wonderful, ordinary people, the colors and voices of their age. Points on a meaningless space-filling curve. 
The Star still watches them. Though they are lost, it guides them. Though they do not listen, it accepts their worship, wishing that at the end of its journey they will leave the confines of its husk and flourish.