## Rin
It’s not you. Rin was my sister’s name. It’s strange to hear it again after so long in a place like this. I thought she and everyone else back home were gone for good. I always thought of home and the past as things to outrun. If I went far enough into the universe I’d be outside their sphere of influence. Escape their event horizon. That’s what the physicists would call it. I never stopped, never looked back. Now’s the first time it’s caught up to me. Maybe it’s about time. I can’t imagine the conceit is healthy at this point.
I’m from what you’d call the wastelands. Or if you’re not from the city, the ruins at the edge of the Dust Line and the old farm territory. I lived in the scaffolding of the old terraforming cityscape. A lot of it dates back to Second- and Third-Wave times. You’d find things like singularity generators and orbital shunts, all of it looted and hollowed out over the years, but the skeletons still intact. In some ways we’ve all be living in the bones of our ancestors but for me it’s been a literal truth my whole life.
There wasn’t very much except for dust and rust and pieces of equipment we scavenged where we could. We traded for some, too, with the Ruskins and the gangs in the desert. Some would even do business with the Anduans but I’d just as soon put a round in their collective brains. They’re pestilence. A band of orbiting mosquitoes spreading their filth. Of course, that’s what the city folk and the servicemen thought about us wastelanders. They still traded with us though. Mostly weapons. Pipe rifles and hand ordinance. In exchange for replacement parts that they couldn’t manufacture anymore.
I’m getting ahead of myself though. My parents were homesteaders. Right out of the Archaeological Society on Yor. They lived in the Lush valley where all the wildflowers caught. Winds so strong and fresh that they’d knock you over, carry you right up the mountains. Mountains also tall enough to block out the sun, almost vertical. The grass was purple and it filled every inch of ground. That engineered stuff, looks purple in the shade but orange in the sun. Always this strange in-between color when you looked at it in the day.
The grass made the ground fertile, perfect for farming everything from food crops to livestock to those flowers we’re famous for. But that wasn’t the reason we were there.
In a clearing almost twenty kliks from the mountains and valleys there’s a set of ruins called the Seedship Bones. They’re about two hundred meters tall, curved like a set of ribs, and structurally impossible. They’re about five or six meters thick the whole way up, made of an unknown substance. And they’re completely invisible from orbit. They didn’t show up on any scans or flybys for hundreds of years. It’s really disturbing seeing them in person. They’re opaque but they don’t cast shadows, like some kind of hole in space filled with substance that you can touch and feel but that’s not really *there.* It’s as though some advanced civilization opened up reality in an editor and dropped them right in.
The Union first picked them up when a maritime carrier sent a shore party to the unclaimed frontier in the Lush. Probably the first time anyone’s landed there in hundreds of years. They find these ruins and the government wants to lay a claim. But they also don’t want to attract attention from the Han. They have the advantage because the Bones are invisible to most technology so they send researchers posing as homesteaders to the area. Metallurgists, material scientists, engineers, even a clergyman. 