---- 
My name is Xian Wu. When I was ten our family came to Luna. There were five of us: my folks, my little brother Kai and my little sister Yi, and me. We went from the dusty plains and milky sky of a Martian homestead to a cramped two-bedroom apartment in Tycho where I slept in the kitchen under walls of grease and a single light bulb.  The whole place was stuffed with cardboard boxes and laundry lines like cobwebs on every ceiling. Our commode stank of piss no matter how much we cleaned it. We lived in a loaf of concrete for displaced foreigners, temporary housing unremarkable from other buildings on the block but for the graffiti and condom-strewn trash at its entryway.
My dad had a shipping business on Mars and he was gone a lot trying to start one up in Tycho. What time he had leftover he spent in whiskey bars by the docks. He’d come home wasted late at night usually up in arms about something, then stumble to bed while my mom pulled the dirty clothes off him. My brother did his best to stay out at the arcades as long as he could. Some evenings we’d watch some Korean crime drama on TV in our undershirts and pretend that there was a better world waiting for us the next day.
I hated my father for bringing us to Luna, for cramming us in that cell with its airtight passages, that soulless maze of metal and cement. A world of eternal night. It wasn’t until much later that I realized how prescient he was, how he’d saved us from the Martian civil war so completely and thoroughly that we weren’t even aware of it at the time. It was perhaps the only redeeming thing he would ever do.
But I shouldn’t talk. Yuki lost her parents on Mars, and her brother too. When she left the war was in full swing and it was much more dangerous to travel than when we did. She never found out what happened to them. You still can’t get any messages in or out of Mars.
I met her in 527, when I was sixteen. I came home from class and saw her standing in the hallway under the yellow halogens. She wore a white pressure suit two sizes too big, like tires around her midsection and ductwork on her limbs. Yuki, pencil-thin in that suit, face deep in shadow. Next to her a couple of suitcases tied in fishnetting on the concrete floor. She must have been fifteen or so. Seeing another Asian in Tycho was so rare that I stopped and stared and she took that as an opening.
What’s your name, she asked me.
Xian.
Sen? she replied.
You’re saying it wrong.
Sorry. Is it Chinese?
I nodded.
I’m Yuki. Could you help me out, Sen? My aunt’s not home and I can’t get in. She tapped her card against the reader on a door and it was dead. I took the card and tapped it myself to no effect. When I got close I saw their her secondhand clothes under her suit, caught a whiff of cheap antiseptic, the same generic soap we used.
Could you call someone? she asked.
Like who?
A locksmith? She raised an eyebrow hopefully.
What’s that?
Someone who fixes locks.
I guess I could call the super. Why are you wearing that suit? Aren’t you supposed to give that back when you land?
They let me keep it. I don’t have any other clothes. The light in the little alcove above started to buzz and give out. She huffed a white breath. Her luggage, her clothes, the pressure suit. Her situation finally dawned on me and I invited her into our home. My family was there in full blast. Yuki stepped out of her suit and used our bathroom apologetically while my dad called the super. My parents kept talking to her in Chinese. Yuki corrected them at first but after a few times she just smiled and nodded to be polite. She waited with us quietly at the dinner table. At one point my father ordered me to fetch her things from the hallway lest they be stolen.
---- 
Tycho is probably the oldest human city still in existence. Very little is known of its origins. For two hundred years, when Luna’s earthward side was uninhabitable, Tycho lay barren and irradiated. When resettlement began three hundred years ago, much of the city’s surviving history was found to be wildly inaccurate. We know that it was built prior to the seedship era, and that it was a multinational effort. Archaeologists have found signage in no less than fifty languages.
We also know that the city originally housed a starport, a heliosphere, and maybe even a network recombinant teleporters, all disassembled long before the city was resettled. The technology is crude by today’s standards, but at the time it would have been a fair thing to behold.
As late as 530 you still saw surveyors in hardhats and pressure suits carrying tents and rations prying up manhole covers. The city thinks that as many as *two-thirds* of Tycho’s original tubes and tunnels appear on no modern map. Acres and acres of underground structures underneath us, sealed behind vaultlike doors and collapsed tunnels, some with equipment still suckling power from the city grid.
Tycho was built as concentric circles joined by spoke as a wheel, with some spokes extending far out to a web of launchpads and orbitals. There are eight Duomos—vast domes hundreds of meters high that covered multiple city blocks and lit up as artificial skies. Layered shells of blast-resistant construction that had never been breached over Tycho’s lifetime, even if they are still under constant repair. Real top quality stuff, expensive even by Venusian standards. And Tycho has eight of these suckers, positioned like nodes along the intersections of ring and spoke. In the city center there is one giant Duomo almost *two kilometers tall.* We call that one Ring 0, the innermost “ring,” and number the other rings as you go out. Most of Rings 0 and 1 are government, public works, and residential. Rings 2 through 5 are industrial zones in the resettled Tycho, since they have the fattest power and data feeds. The only people who live in those Rings have nowhere else to go.
---- 
Too many Martian refugees came to Tycho in 528. Yuki was lucky to have a distant relative who could shelter her, her uncle’s wife’s sister. Neither of us knew what to call the relation. An aunt-in-law perhaps, who was never around, leaving Yuki to her own devices in an empty flat.
Those refugees who didn’t have such connection wound up in shelters and camps that were soon overrun by their own number. Many left the overpopulated camps, seeking shelter in abandoned factories and warehouses on the edge of town, even a stadium that had been built for the last Olympic Games a century ago. Some lived at the bottom of the pool, by then a befouled indentation of concrete sopping with feral odors. Still others left the camps legally and made their way to the Arms where they wouldn’t stand out so much against the rest of us. But they weren’t allowed to work, to support themselves by legitimate means. They lived in tunnels and gangways, old fallout shelters from the time of the seedship wars. The year I turned seventeen, refugee kids started following us home from school. They didn’t say or do anything, just stood slightly out-of-sight, peering around dumpsters, around corners. The streets became radioactive. Sometimes a scent of sterile detergent would linger in an underpass and you’d stop talking with whatever friends you were with and look about yourselves like cornered animals.
The police couldn’t catch them. They would disappear down an alley, into an airvent, find their ways around magnetic seals and impeller blades. They knew the pipes of the city better than anyone else.
Soon they appeared in the stairwells of monorail stations. Always the farthest ones out. They sat on the steps of all the exits. Only kids and teenagers, never adults. Rows of antiseptic faces in threadbare clothes eyeing you as you walked by. Some would try to hide it, chitchat idly with each other, look away or run if challenged. But they were always there, always watching.
The first kid to run afoul of them was a kid from my school named Emmett. Emmett took the late train heading home out of Juniper, the heart of Tycho’s schools in Ring 0. Brownouts were common in the station tubes and it was then they jumped him. He described to to me, said it was like fighting in a strobe. He got snapshots of his assailants here and there. A spinning fist. A nest of exploding hair. They smashed his knees out from under him and kicked him with bare feet when he was doubled over on the ground. When the transit police found him he was missing most of his front teeth and his shoes.
The men of Juniper formed a regional watch. They patrolled the stations and parks two-by-two, walking their kids home. But there were no more attacks in Juniper.
The second was a boy in Lionsbridge, way out in the railways along Ring 2. He’d been pushed onto the tracks and into the path of a 400-kph monorail. The train’s autopilot recorded it all. A gang of five or six shadows on the platform a split second before impact. There were only bits and pieces of him left. His blood spraypainted the nose and front half the first car. Funny thing but I’m not sure they ever found out who he was. Before they pushed him they took most of his clothes. Nobody was reported missing and there was no match on his remains.
Everyone blamed the Martian refugees. The next weekend the National Guard raided the factories and warehouses and rounded up all the refugees they found. For their own protection, the Guard claimed. And with good reason—the people of Tycho were out for their blood. The Guard lined up the refugees for blocks, and they stood still and pale and grey, cordoned off with sawhorses and machineguns. Over five thousand went through a maze of interrogation rooms one after the other in the Stadium gardens. A dozen or so were arrested, but no charges ever stuck. The Guard tried to keep all the refugees secured in the Stadium after that. There were riots. Sometimes tear gas. You heard hopper turbines hovering, panning their searchlights around the block. At night, explosions drummed in the horizon. You could fool yourself sometimes, saying it was just the air pumps restarting, a low-orbit engine.
The third and fourth were a boy and girl, both around sixteen, and both found on the same night in opposite ends of the city. One had been stabbed, the other shot. I think the boy survived and told stories in line with blaming the Martians. In retrospect, there were questions about whether the boy and girl were really the victims of the same assailants. Holes opened up in the boy’s story, questions of a drug deal gone bad. But this was years later. 
At the time, Tycho had already made up its mind about the refugees, and anyone related to Mars. Expat communities like those in the Arms saw beatings, muggings. Hate speech scrawled on doors and walls, bricks and rotten eggs thrown at windows. Tycho had taken the city back, but for us the heartache was ongoing.
---- 
Us kids formed brigades of our own. Went to and from school together, carrying billy clubs and flashlights. The older of us saw the younger to their schools and homes before we went back to our own. The streets became a hinterland. Alone you were desperately vulnerable but once you got in a group of ten or twenty you started feeling safe again. Plus, they said, all the kids who died, they were all alone. That wasn’t going to be us.
There were eight of us who walked from the Arms. Me and my brother and sister, my friend Tyler, three kids from my sister’s grade, and Yuki. As consolation for growing up in the sticks we went to school in one of the eight Duomos of Tycho, and it was glorious. Every morning we’d meet out in the concrete corridors and go out the secure gates, through a half-mile of pressure-sealed tunnels, and emerge in the chill air of the Duomo and its milky grey sky and cataract of artificial morninglight. Buildings glowed around us with the texture of bone. The streets were lined with flower banks of dirt and trash, the walls around us bore ghosts of being tagged and cleaned and tagged again. Ancient booths with curved tops stood bent and eviscerated. Traffic largely flowed around them.
For a few months, Tyler, Yuki, and I would walk the gaggle of kids to their school and then hightail it to our own. Eventually Tyler dropped out and started running stolen car parts, so it fell to Yuki and me to see everyone off safely. 