---- 
On 19 March 539, Yuki died of heart failure in her studio unit in the Asylum Arms, South Tycho. She was twenty-nine. At the time of her death she weighed ninety pounds. Paramedics descended on her balcony, dropping from lines anchored to hovering ambulances, their spotlights overpowering the haze of blue and pink signs. Neighbors would describe it akin to a commando raid, a drug bust. 
But she was no dealer, no junkie. They found her hooked up to a tunneling unit, a piece of headgear that projected her consciousness instantaneously to a remote android unit elsewhere in the solar system. This way she commuted to Saturn’s moon Titan, where she worked for the last two years as a nurse’s assistant in a frontier hospital. But strangely she had quit two months ago. Or more accurately, she had been dismissed after failing to show three days in a row.
When they found her she’d been hooked up for four days straight, her body lying unmoving on her bed, her consciousness in deep space. My old buddy Tyler was one of the cops called to clean up the place. He told me the stench was horrible. In preparation for her final journey she had inserted an intravenous drip in her arm and donned an adult diaper before going under. When they found her the line had torn loose and the mattress was soaked with urine. They tell me the super had to replace the whole carpet. It was like a swamp. Even the walls were rank and had started to mold over.
Her headgear was an unlicensed unit bought off a junk dealer. Couldn’t be traced. Not even the endpoints of her journey came to light in the investigation. And she’d been at it for quite some time. She was nothing more than a bag of bones and organs at that point. Epidermis stretched paper-thin over cheekbones sharp as hooks, sores in her scalp and forehead from her tunneling equipment. She had been going in for days at a time, mind and body divorced as the latter wasted to nothing. Wherever she was going, it wasn’t her former job on Titan. The pathologist’s report agreed that two months of being largely immobile seemed right given her state. Something about the compression of her spine and the effects of augmented Lunar gravity. The conclusion was appalling: She remained connected, tunneled in, for dangerously long stretches, neglected to eat, to drink, to bathe. And kept it up for some time. She had become obsessed, highly unstable.
There was no further police investigation. The noble detective who returned my call stated in a voicemail that seven months ago Yuki had visited a sublimation clinic in Tycho by the Outer Bend and applied for assisted suicide. She was advised to undergo sterilization instead, as she was young, healthy, had a job and residence. I don’t know why she would apply for such a thing. She wasn’t a nut about religion or overpopulation. But the visit was on record and she was dead by her own hand. Suicide, the detective said. No narcotics on the report, just a cocktail of antibiotics and vitamins that she seemed to be self-administering. Possibly a psychotic break. Anything else had nothing to do with the Tycho PD. *Have a nice day and sorry for your loss.*
They charged the carpet to her estate and sent the rest to probate. She was cremated according to her wishes, but the political climate made it impossible to inter her ashes with the rest of her family on Mars. So she spent her first few weeks of eternity here on Luna, in Tycho, just a few miles from where we went to school.
---- 
I didn’t know what I had to prove anymore. That I could make it, that I could escape. Had to show up my old man just one more time. The kid you threw away was the only one who climbed out the hole you dug for us. I spent my early twenties busting my ass to get an engineering degree and a commercial flight rating and took the first offworld assignment I could get at twenty-five. Anything to get out of Tycho, out of Luna, into the rest of the human empire. The rush of variable gravity, the shift of pitch and yaw and roll. The spinning of stars, the gambol of spacecraft and the unbounded freedom of three dimensions. All the thrust vectors and quaternions and Feynman diagrams came to life. I got a job as an astronavigator with a deep salvage firm run out of Lavinia Planitia on Venus. There was a goldmine of ancient space junk if you could find it. Wreckage from the great interstellar seedships that came to horrible ends centuries ago still drifted in eccentric orbits around Sol. Billions in rare minerals and lost technology. My eyes were to the stars.
My launch window to Venus came in June of 534. Ever since I’d been at the Salt Flats of Lavinia. A full terraform was still centuries away. But a myriad of honeycombed solar panels in orbit around Venus redirected enough solar energy to cool the daytime surface so that its temperature hovered just below boiling. They looked like the eye of some eldritch insect. A godlike harmony of hexagons and superstructures and tensor fields keeping it all in place. Each time I saw it from approach I would think: I’m finally home.
But by January of 539 the hauls were slim. I was working for an outfit called Undine that specialized in recovery from the Lagrange points of the inner circle. It was a six-month assignment. I’d been en route to the Venusian L5 point for about two months on the Dotty, a rusty frigate with a crew of five. At a rare comm window I picked up a message from Yuki. Text-only. She’d sent it weeks ago. I was paging through my comms on the astro deck when I saw it.
*How’s the weather up there?*
I sat to attention. My feet came off the console and onto the deck. It was like someone had entered the room, caught me with my pants down. But I was alone in the cabin with the solar shields pulled. The sun’s orange rays searing through the cracks of the shield edges to form rounded rectangles of fake dusk. We’d just completed a plane change and wouldn’t require course corrections for another few days, but our charter required a licensed pilot on the flight deck at all times.
Yuki and I hadn’t talked much since her divorce. We weren’t on bad terms or anything. We both just went silent. I figured she needed time to heal, that she didn’t need me around stirring things up. Especially when she had finally landed a new job and a new place, even though the job was on Titan and the place less than a mile away from where we grew up. Of all the people I knew I hoped the hardest that she would make it out of Tycho. That the one summer we had together in Termina wouldn’t be the only time she got to see the great human empire. But it wasn’t to be. Many years later, after I left for Venus, she married some dipshit mechanic who spent his evenings at the shop working on his projects. These projects turned out to be burglarizing Goodwill stores in the industrial blocks. He had knocked up not one but two girls in the Asylum flats and claimed he needed the money to support them. I reached out from time to time to ask how she was doing, but her answers were each more noncommittal than the last. My sister still kept in contact with Yuki and she said I should give it space. So there I was, giving it space.
*The stars are falling again,* I replied.
I thought of Yuki as the last time I saw her, then of my friends, the unending stream of weddings and births on Luna. I attended none of them. My own empty flat on Venus baking in the sulphuric daylight. A landscape of molten windblown sand. The engines rumbling down the catwalks of the Dotty. Below me, the ship’s cargo bays, barren and waiting for the haul. Rows of EV suits lining the airlock in a space-age catacomb. 
Yuki’s reply came several minutes later.
*The days are getting longer. And you, all alone out there. Isolation isn’t good for the soul. Want some company?*
*You looking to leave Luna?* I replied quickly.
And several minutes after that.
*In a manner of speaking. Let’s catch up. Go to a shop and get a doll would ya. I want to talk face to face.*
*No dolls here. No nothing. I’m aboard ship eight weeks out another twenty back. Just tell me what’s on your mind.*
I didn’t have the heart to tell her that we did have a doll aboard, a service android. The whole notion of this artificial being having Yuki’s consciousness infused in its bioprinted brain was too unsettling. That I should treat this thing as if it were her. This mannequin, this unworthy receptacle for her soul. Maybe on the gasworlds these kinds of things flew, but here in the inner circle it was just too bizarre. That was the last time Yuki tried to reach out to me, during a time I calculate would be the height of her strange addiction. Nothing about her messages seemed out of the ordinary, if you knew Yuki, no matter how many times I pored over them. She was the happiest and loneliest person I ever knew.
Before she replied, Gunthrie came up the rickety service ladder to relieve me. His shock opera hair was his best and only redeeming quality. He slid into his polished vinyl seat, picked at the frayed corners. Pulled on his headset and blasted his shrill music.
I have the ball, he said, grabbing the flight handle from his console.
Leave it on autopilot, I answered.
I need my hours, man. I’m up for recertification.
Are you kidding? You’re fucking high.
*Shhh!* He pulled his headset off and gestured. There’s flight recorders and shit. He coughed a few times but even if he hadn’t I could still smell the skunk on him.
I’m not handing you manual control. In fact, I’m going to lock the whole thing down.
Come on, man. You don’t have to be an asshole. There’s nothing left out there. The Core Consortium picked it clean years ago. I’m just here to get my hours and go home.
Home?
Gunthrie stabbed at the buttons on his console. Half of them were stuck or missing labels.
There’s a supply ship, he said. The Marie Curie. Waiting at L5. Straight shot to Luna in forty-five days.
You can’t just leave in the middle of a job!
Ah, he interrupted with a raised index finger. It’s only a job if we get paid. We’ve already been screwed out of commissions twice—*twice*—on technicalities.
So it doesn’t bother you to leave us shorthanded?
Shorthanded? So you take one less eight-hour nap. Don’t deny it, I’ve seen you. There’s no shame in it. Johansson spends his time on shift jerking off in the head.
You are a piece of work, Gunthrie.
Why don’t you come with us? You’re from Luna. You should go back, get fucked up every once in a while. Do you some good.
You do this, you’ll never work out of Lavinia again.
That would be fine with me.
I called Davies over to relieve me and babysit Gunthrie, then went down to the lounge to relax. I wound up eating half a vacuum packed meal of steak and potatoes and by then the Dotty had left the sweet spot for comms and we were on radio silence again.
I didn’t pick up Yuki’s replies until our next window another month out, when we were almost at L5. Things went as Gunthrie had predicted: No salvage on our scopes. The vast pointlessness of space ringing in our ears. We manned the conn and did our rounds. Put on our fishbowls to go EV and chisel through intrastellar corrosion. Primed the deuterium pumps and swabbed the decks like monkeys sent into space a thousand years ago. We were coming out of a turbulent correction when her messages all came through, one after the other.
*I wish I could tell you.*
*Or show you.*
And finally:
*You know that trip we always talked about? I finally made it. I have found God. And you will too. I hope and pray for your salvation so that we can meet in the kingdom beyond.*
Along with these messages was a letter from my sister, writing to inform me of Yuki’s passing. 
Among the rest of my messages the usual union updates, and finally the corporate liaison from Undine letting me know that they wouldn’t be renewing my contract.